---
title: "My Journey"
weight: 8
---
Even in school, I always had a passion for technology. Naturally, after graduating, I started a vocational training as computer science expert. While the responsibility and freedom - which my trainer gave me despite my young age (thanks Peter!) - helped me develop superbly personally, the technical information didn't go deep enough for me. Especially in vocational school we learned numerous basics, but when I asked about the "why" and not just the "how", it was too often pointed out that this goes beyond the content of the vocational training.
<br/><br/>
That's why I decided to attend night school alongside the vocational training to catch up on my technical diploma and be able to study. I am a big fan of learning new things, but I am convinced that if you only get knowledge from lectures and books, countless things are missing.  That's why I decided to start a dual study program at Deutsche Telekom after completing my vocational training. This involved working full time at Deutsche Telekom, but attending a block of lectures at the university every few weeks. Of course, this was not possible without a lot of self-study after work between lecture blocks. This was very exhausting, but I would do it again and again. Not only that I was able to learn an enormous amount both in my studies and at work. I will also never forget the great time I was able to spend with my fellow students around the lectures in Leipzig.
<br/><br/>
During my dual studies, the newly founded Autobot team asked me if I could imagine working for them full-time after graduation. To be honest, I have to admit that I was skeptical at first. I had already gained experience in programming since the start of my vocational training - at that time already 6 years. But still, the step from the security department to full-time software development was a huge one (and additionally with a language that was unknown to me until then). But after my first visit to Düsseldorf, all these doubts were wiped away. The passion, the urge to break up outdated structures and the love for technology that I found in all my colleagues immediately inspired me. Especially, the enthusiasm and innovative ideas of Thomas (Team lead) left a deep impression on me. So, I decided to accept the offer. More even, I set all levers in motion to move from Münster to Düsseldorf already during my ongoing studies. The change of the location of the dual study was usually not meant to be like and there were numerous bureaucratic hurdles, but I wanted to become a member of the Autobot team as soon as possible and contribute my part to the still new project.
<br/><br/>
Looking back, this decision was the absolutely right one. The colleagues and the interaction was and is probably one of the best I have ever experienced. But also the work itself has influenced me enormously. Python has fundamentally changed my attitude towards programming, from a partial necessary evil to a passion (and this passion has now spread to other languages as well). I have also been able to learn a lot in other areas. Not only because my colleagues know an impressive amount in many fields and are always willing to help. No, also because we as a team always had the courage to take on new topics - without any expertise in the specific area - and had the confidence to master them. This attitude, not to fear new things, but to be enthusiasm for being allowed to learn something, still characterizes me today.
<br/><br/>
My curiosity drove me nevertheless - or just because of it - to learn new things besides my job. The fields of data analysis and machine learning have fascinated me for a long time. At work, however, I only came into contact with it in rare circumstances. That's why I decided to do my master's degree in exactly this area. Since I had already had very positive experiences in dual studies and I also enjoy my work too much to stop, I decided to study while working. This was not always easy either, sitting down for hours after work to study or work on projects is not always easy. Above all, my tendency to take on entirely new topics and technologies for project work certainly didn't make it any easier. But if I had to do projects for university, I at least wanted to learn the maximum.
<br/><br/>
And then what you might call fate happened. While my studies were coming to an end, and I was already thinking about how I could use my new knowledge professionally and whether a job change away from Deutsche Telekom might not be necessary, it was decided to set up a data analyst team within my team. And yes, the executives from the upper levels who made this decision actually knew nothing about my studies. Also, initially, only someone external with several years of experience was to be hired. Thanks to many conversations and the support of my direct supervisor (thank you, Matze), I was able to start as the second Data Scientist within the team after completing my studies. To enable a better exchange of knowledge and expertise, a new team with Data Scientists and Data Engineers from different departments was founded rather quickly. This team operates independently of the actual departmental structure to help other teams with their business problems. For more than a year now, I have been able to apply my theoretical knowledge from the master's degree in many areas of practice in a large company and have thus been able to learn a lot. 
<br/><br/>
Every use case has it own challenges and issues. No solution fits all use cases, and new frameworks and tools constantly appear. For me, this means continuing to learn new things every day. And this is exactly what drives me as well. Looking back, this thirst for new knowledge and constant self-improvement has taken me to the right places at the right time. Even though some decisions were not easy, I never regret following this urge. I am curious to see where it will lead me and how I can continue to write this journey.